*  The Sunny 16 Rule
            =================
            
In photography, the sunny 16 rule (also known as the sunny f/16 rule)
is a method of estimating correct daylight exposures without a light
meter. (For lunar photography there is a similar rule known as the
looney 11 rule.) Apart from the obvious advantage of independence from
a light meter, the sunny 16 rule can also aid in achieving correct
exposure of difficult subjects. As the rule is based on incident
light, rather than reflected light as with most camera light meters,
very bright or very dark subjects are compensated for. The rule serves
as a mnemonic for the camera settings obtained on a sunny day using
the exposure value (EV) system.

The basic rule is, "On a sunny day set aperture to f/16 and shutter
speed to the [reciprocal of the] ISO film speed [or ISO setting] for a
subject in direct sunlight."[1] For example:

On a sunny day and with ISO 100 film / setting in the camera, one sets
the aperture to f/16 and the shutter speed to 1 / 100 or 1 / 125 [2]
second (on some cameras 1 / 125 second is the available setting
nearest to 1 / 100 second).  On a sunny day with ISO 200 film /
setting and aperture at f/16, set shutter speed to 1 / 200 or 1 / 250
.  On a sunny day with ISO 400 film / setting and aperture at f/16,
set shutter speed to 1 / 400 or 1 / 500 .  As with other light
readings, shutter speed can be changed as long as the f-number is
altered to compensate, e.g.  1 / 250 second at f/11 gives equivalent
exposure to 1 / 125 second at f/16. More in general, the adjustment is
done such that for each step in aperture increase (i.e., decreasing
the f-number), the exposure time has to be halved (or equivalently,
the shutter speed doubled), and vice versa. This follows the more
general rule derived from the mathematical relationship between
aperture and exposure timeâ€”within reasonable ranges, exposure is
proportional to the square of the aperture ratio and proportional to
exposure time; thus, to maintain a constant level of exposure, a
change in aperture by a factor c requires a change in exposure time by
a factor 1 / c2 and vice versa. Steps in the aperture always
correspond to a factor close to the square root of 2, thus the above
rule.

An elaborated form of the sunny 16 rule is to set shutter speed
nearest to the reciprocal of the ISO film speed / setting and f-number
according to this table:[3][4]

	|--------------+---------------------+-----------------------|
	| Aperture     | Lighting Conditions | Shadow Detail         |
	|--------------+---------------------+-----------------------|
	| f/22         | snow/sand           | dark with sharp edges |
	| f/16         | sunny               | distinct              |
	| f/11         | slightly overcast   | soft around edges     |
	| f/8          | overcast            | barely visible        |
	| f/5.6        | heavy overcast      | no shadows            |
	| f/4          | open shade / sunset | no shadows            |
	| add one stop | backlighting        | n/a                   |
	|--------------+---------------------+-----------------------|

